README.md, before:

# Sound Switch

A simple Rust application for Windows that allows switching the default audio output device using globally configured hotkeys.

## Features

*   **Global Hotkeys:** Define custom key combinations to switch to specific audio devices.
*   **Configurable Devices:** Map hotkeys to target audio device names in a configuration file.
*   **Fuzzy Matching:** Optionally enable fuzzy matching for device names if the exact name isn't known or contains variable elements.
*   **Background Operation:** Runs silently in the background with a system tray icon.
*   **System Tray Control:** Provides a "Quit" option in the system tray menu to cleanly exit the application.

## Configuration

The application requires a `config.toml` file located in the same directory as the executable (`sound_switch.exe`).

**Example `config.toml`:**

```toml
# Set to true to enable fuzzy matching for device names, false for exact matching.
fuzzy_match = true

# Define your hotkey mappings here.
# 'keys' uses a format like "Modifier+Modifier+Key" (e.g., "Ctrl+Shift+F1", "Alt+1").
# Supported modifiers: Ctrl, Alt, Shift, Win (Super/Meta).
# See the 'global_hotkey' crate documentation for specific key names.
# 'device' is the friendly name of the audio output device as shown in Windows Sound settings.
[[hotkeys]]
keys = "Ctrl+Alt+1"
device = "Speakers (Realtek High Definition Audio)"

[[hotkeys]]
keys = "Ctrl+Alt+2"
device = "Headset (HyperX Cloud II Wireless)"

[[hotkeys]]
keys = "Ctrl+Alt+F4"
device = "DELL U2719DC (NVIDIA High Definition Audio)"
```

**Finding Device Names:**
You can find the exact names of your audio output devices in the Windows Sound settings panel.

## Building

1.  Ensure you have Rust and Cargo installed ([https://rustup.rs/](https://rustup.rs/)).
2.  Clone the repository (if applicable) or navigate to the project directory.
3.  Build the release executable:
    ```bash
    cargo build --release
    ```
    The executable will be located at `target/release/sound_switch.exe`.

## Running

1.  Create the `config.toml` file as described above and place it in the `target/release/` directory alongside `sound_switch.exe`.
2.  Double-click `sound_switch.exe` to run it.
3.  The application will start in the background. Look for its icon in the system tray.
4.  Press your configured hotkeys to switch audio devices.
5.  Right-click the tray icon and select "Quit" to stop the application.

## Dependencies

This project relies on several Rust crates, including:

*   `windows-rs`: For interacting with Windows APIs (Core Audio).
*   `global_hotkey`: For registering and listening to global hotkeys.
*   `tray-item`: For creating the system tray icon and menu.
*   `toml`: For parsing the configuration file.
*   `serde`: For configuration deserialization.
*   `fuzzy-matcher`: For fuzzy string matching of device names.

## Platform

This application is designed specifically for **Windows** due to its reliance on Windows-specific APIs for audio device control and hotkeys.

Commit message:

feat: cmdlet implementation, input device support, checks and notifications

README.md, after:

# Sound Switch

A simple Rust application for Windows that allows switching the default audio output device using globally configured hotkeys.

## Features

*   **Global Hotkeys:** Define custom key combinations to switch to specific audio devices.
*   **Configurable Devices:** Map hotkeys to target audio output device names in a configuration file.
*   **Auto Input Switching:** Optionally map hotkeys to also switch the default input device automatically.
*   **Device Validation:** Shows a notification on startup if any configured devices are not found.
*   **Fuzzy Matching:** Optionally enable fuzzy matching for device names if the exact name isn't known or contains variable elements.
*   **Background Operation:** Runs silently in the background with a system tray icon.
*   **System Tray Control:** Provides a "Quit" option in the system tray menu to cleanly exit the application.

## Configuration

The application requires a `config.toml` file. It looks for the config file in this order:
1. Next to the executable (`sound_switch.exe`)
2. In the current working directory

If no config file is found, the application will show an error message with the exact paths it searched.

**Example `config.toml`:**

```toml
# Set to true to enable fuzzy matching for device names, false for exact matching.
fuzzy_match = true

# Define your hotkey mappings here.
# 'keys' uses a format like "Modifier+Modifier+Key" (e.g., "Ctrl+Shift+F1", "Alt+1").
# Supported modifiers: Ctrl, Alt, Shift, Win (Super/Meta).
# See the 'global_hotkey' crate documentation for specific key names.
# 'device-name' is the friendly name of the audio output device as shown in Windows Sound settings.
# 'input-device-name' (optional) is the friendly name of the audio input device to switch to automatically.
[[hotkeys]]
keys = "Ctrl+Alt+1"
device-name = "Speakers (Realtek High Definition Audio)"
input-device-name = "Microphone (Realtek High Definition Audio)"

[[hotkeys]]
keys = "Ctrl+Alt+2"
device-name = "Headset (HyperX Cloud II Wireless)"
input-device-name = "Microphone (HyperX Cloud II Wireless)"

[[hotkeys]]
keys = "Ctrl+Alt+F4"
device-name = "DELL U2719DC (NVIDIA High Definition Audio)"
# No input device specified - only switches output device
```

**Finding Device Names:**
You can find the exact names of your audio output and input devices in the Windows Sound settings panel. Both output and input device names are shown in their respective sections.

## Building

1.  Ensure you have Rust and Cargo installed ([https://rustup.rs/](https://rustup.rs/)).
2.  Clone the repository (if applicable) or navigate to the project directory.
3.  Build the release executable:
    ```bash
    cargo build --release
    ```
    The executable will be located at `target/release/sound_switch.exe`.

## Running

1.  Create the `config.toml` file as described above and place it in the `target/release/` directory alongside `sound_switch.exe`.
2.  Double-click `sound_switch.exe` to run it.
3.  The application will start in the background. Look for its icon in the system tray.
4.  Press your configured hotkeys to switch audio devices.
5.  Right-click the tray icon and select "Quit" to stop the application.

## Dependencies

This project relies on several Rust crates, including:

*   `windows-rs`: For interacting with Windows APIs (Core Audio).
*   `global_hotkey`: For registering and listening to global hotkeys.
*   `tray-item`: For creating the system tray icon and menu.
*   `toml`: For parsing the configuration file.
*   `serde`: For configuration deserialization.
*   `fuzzy-matcher`: For fuzzy string matching of device names.

## Platform

This application is designed specifically for **Windows** due to its reliance on Windows-specific APIs for audio device control and hotkeys.
